Okay, maybe just a brief statement.
Have you always been a full-time writer?
Yep.
I went effectively out of...
I just started at the beginning.
I've never been anything but a writer, actually.
I entered the University of Minnesota in 1939 when I was 15 years old and began work toward
a degree for creative writing with a major in creative writing.
And World War II came along before I was able to get my BA.
So I was out for three or four years.
I forget which, something like that.
Then I went back and spent another two years and went into graduate school.
At the time, it's about the only time in my life when I ever considered doing anything
but writing.
I was playing with the idea then of holding down a teaching job, going on and getting my
doctorate in English and teaching and doing the writing on the side.
After World War II, we were all hypersensible.
Everybody was very cool-headed.
Let's have this nonsense over with.
Get down and get to work someplace.
And luckily I came out of that and said, this is silly.
I'd never intended to do anything but writing.
And instead of having the teaching pay for the writing, why not make the writing pay
for the writing?
So I simply dived out of graduate school into full-time writing for the magazines.
There were still quite a few magazines around.
There were still a fair number of pulp magazines, for example.
The slick magazines paid a great deal more, but they were chancy.
The slick magazines, what they wanted from week to week would depend on what the theme
of that particular issue was.
In other words, they might like you and they might like what you write and so on and so
forth.
But if you'd written a story about blowworms and they wanted one, a fiction story that involved
blowworms, and they wanted one about cowboys on the western plains, then they didn't want
that particular story.
And there would be no place else to send it.
The pulp magazines, on the other hand, if you wrote a science fiction story, there were
a number of science fiction magazines or a number of detective or a number of western.
So actually I dived in and kept myself afloat writing for the magazines for about three or
four years and then I, somewhere about 1954, I did my first science fiction novel.
So I d been full time as a writer since 1950.
Now I'd sold things before then.
I'd sold a magazine piece I think as early as 1942 and I'd had something in a magazine,
a short short story in a magazine section of Minneapolis paper and I'd been in the Toronto
Star Weekly, which was a magazine supplement that went along with the Toronto Star Journal.
Star Journal?
I can't remember the name of the newspaper.
See, you see the thing is that I always intended to be a writer and about for the first 30
years of my life I was simply looking for the type of thing I wanted to write.
I cut my teeth on poetry.
If I'd been born in the late 19th century I would have been at home because I would
have done long narrative poems like Idols of the King, you know, Tennyson's and Iowa's
and things like this.
As it is we're in a non-plotic age and I finally ended up saying well to do what I want to
do I'm going to have to use the medium of historical novels.
And then simply because Megatheans were putting bread and butter on the table and I found out
I liked science fiction best, I liked writing science fiction best, I ended up doing essentially
nothing but science fiction.
And as I did this I came to realize the possibilities in that particular field for what I wanted
to do.
And of course what I wanted to do is now take in shape long since 20 years ago as the
child cycle of novels which is when it's done we'll cover a thousand years.
There'll be three historical novels starting with one about Sir John Hawkwood who was an
Englishman in the 13th century who ended up as Captain General of the Military Forces
for Florence, Italy and will end in the 23rd century with Child, C. H. I. L. D. E., the novel
from which the whole series takes its name.
And the whole series effectively, the stories don't chronologically follow each other, they're
connected thematically and what they represent is sort of a literary thematic argument something
that has never been done before actually which argues, a philosophical point in fact, it
argues that we're undergoing evolution right now.
It's not physical evolution or mental evolution, it's a, there's no really good word for it,
you would call it spiritual evolution but that isn't right either, it's an ethical evolution.
We're, of necessity we're evolving what I call a responsible human being and we're
sort of halfway there from the time of the third, look at from the viewpoint of the 13th
century toward the 23rd we're halfway to developing the responsible human being.
If you assume that old, insanity is going to be brought under control unless civilization
goes crash within the next 50 or 100 years, if not a lot sooner, that is going to give
you a population of sane people but even a population of sane people can have individuals
who for their own purposes are willing to destroy things.
Now back in the days of the flit acts and the stone club, if a particular key man decided
to run wild and start bobbing people over the head he could probably kill two or three
others before everybody ganged up on him and stopped him and that escalated up to our time
where somebody who knows how can set up a laboratory in the basement and blow up a lot
of the whole, a large sized city or part of a state and you extrapolate the curve of
destructive possibility and you see that within well probably less than the three to 500
years I give us, you're going to have a situation where any individual can destroy the whole
race, not less some such sense of the responsibility is developed.
And what the historical novels do and the contemporary novels do is what a good hard
science fiction story does and that is they lay out the evidence of what we know and then
extrapolate forward from there saying alright if this and this and this is so and we know
it to be so then doesn't this develop from it, you know and if I'm wrong and my hypothesis
point out where I'm wrong and so the whole cycle becomes essentially sort of one large
science fiction story even though it covers historical, contemporary and future novels.
Okay excellent you've answered about five or six of my questions there.
I get into having to do you see I have a part time lecturer and platform speaker and I get
off on this topic and I tend to run with it.
Well listen I take it from what you said and from what I understand from your work that
essentially you're an optimist about man's future.
Oh yes, yes and the evidence is there for optimism. In fact if you look at things historically
you'll find that pessimism has always been the short term view and optimism has been
the long term view. What survives in the way of philosophy and literature and history and
so on and so forth shows a general overall improvement and development of society. At
any given moment you look around yourself and you say my god I don't see how we can
last out the year, you know five years at the outside but they've been saying that since
Egyptian days. You know these old jokes about the archaeologists looking at the, you know
writing inside the pyramid and saying you know there is no hope.
Well the human race is simply going downhill. The present generation doesn't know anything
and the old generation has given up and we've got problems that are too big for us to handle
so what hope is there for us? If it's always looked that way from the static point in history
that attitude is going to have to change though because beginning with the 1960s particularly
but even before then unconsciously this change was coming about we're developing a generation
and we have a generation right now that realizes they stand on a moving sidewalk. You can see
history, you can see the world changing around you as you stand because of technological advances.
In other words 100 to 150 years ago if you were gifted with intelligence and ambition
and a certain amount of luck and possibilities you could say when I grow up I'm going to
work hard and get rich and I'm going to have a white house on the hill with a coach and
six fine horses and if you could point to the hill and my gosh 40 years later if you
had done what you set out to do you could be on that hill with that house and those
horses. Nowadays you say 40 years from now I'd like to have such and so and if it's
an equivalent of a house on the hill and so on and so forth by the time you get there
they may not have houses. They'll say let alone white houses and they won't be using
horses or whatever our present formal transportation is and the hill may have been both those flat
for that matter. In other words living is becoming a situation in which intelligent people will
have to keep learning all their lives simply to keep up and keep adjusting. Now this implies
a necessary flexibility that was not in existence before. History changed things but they changed
things so slowly that people could pretend that in their own lifetime there was no change.
Okay very good. To be a little more specific about your child cycle I think if I recall
it was a 1959 astounding that the the Dorsi series started. How much of your future history
had you conceived at that time? What date was that? It was a 1959 astounding the Dorsi
story the Genique General was published. Oh yes well actually the astounding astounding
did it under his proper title which was Dorsi. It was eight books at that time that changed
it to that crazy title of the genetic general which has since been buried you know back to
calling it Dorsi again. It came out in the magazine as a serial under the title Dorsi.
Actually that was written in 1958 and as the cycle as it's in a printout form if you want
to describe it that way wasn't in existence at that time. What had happened was that from
the time when I was very young see I decided to as one of these kids that taught myself
to read when I was about four years old I did it by the well known method of being read
to a lot and as a child you memorized the stories you read to and I would pick up a book and
pretend to read it and the priest and I began to connect what I was saying with what was
on the paper and I was fascinated with stories. I said this is what I want to do and from
then on I was looking for what specifically I wanted to do with this and as I grew up
and the ideas developed it came that I wanted to do a large work that had a particular application
to literature and to my time. In other words I had the rough pattern of what I was after
but it hadn't coalesced. It was misty around the edges. Back in 1948 after work I was a
member of the Civil War II when I was in graduate school I was working on a historical novel
called The Pipeman which was about 15th century Italy as half of it is 14th century actually
and it's about a young member of one of the levees of Swiss Pipeman who comes down into
Italy and sees the civilization down there and looks at it through this clean pair of
northern amoral mountaineers essentially because this is the explosion, the explosive
beginning of the Renaissance you see. Now after I'd done Dorsi later on see when I started
to make a living writing short stories I didn't have time to sit down and write at all. You
have to take six months at least out to do a decent job and how you keep the wolf from
the door during those six months if you're living hand to mouth from short story income
is a question. And so I simply didn't get around to writing a novel until I had the
money to do so. When I did I wrote it under a good deal of pressure and pretty much of
a hurry and I came up with Dorsi and this first novel and after I'd done it the following
summer I was at the Milford Science Fiction Conference. Now this was a my invitation only
conference for those of us who were professional science fiction writers. It was held every
June up in the Catskill and I used to go in spite of the fact that the various pollens
up there at that time would trigger off my asthma and I wouldn't sleep for a week and
I'd be. I began to be afflicted by asthma during World War II and it would have been
a miserable time but it hadn't been such a magnificent time because it was our chance
to sit around and talk shop. We'd have the afternoons where we would read each other's
manuscripts and criticize them in the evenings we'd sit around and debate some particular
writerly topic or something but mostly it was simply knocking heads with your fellow
wizards that made it worthwhile and while I was up there I hit one night one asthmatic
night when I was exhausted and I thought well maybe I'll sleep through and asthmatics tell
me this of course you don't. I woke up an hour later and saw it. Now people who don't
know asthma don't realize that it isn't a matter of getting breath in it's a matter
of getting breath out. You swell up with air that you can't exhale and your adrenaline
level goes off the top of the map. Your physically incapacitated mind just gallops. Now we were
way off in the woods effectively and there was nothing to be done till dawn at which
time other people would be up and they could drive me to the nearest doctor or clinic or
what have you and so I just had nothing to do but sit there for five hours and wait for
the sunrise and in that time I worked out the pattern for this cycle completely from soup
to nuts with every book in its place or rather every I shouldn't say every book because the
numbers of books have doubled because of the size of what's being done but it's a case
of the original books more or less being split down the middle you see because they're too
big to publish as a chunk. The whole thing laid itself out and when the sun did rise
or the sun came up I mean I went and talked over with one of our fellow visitors who was
a man named Richard Bacchina who wrote a novel called The Sand Pebble which from which
a movie was made that older people may remember a little bit. The Sand Pebbles was not a science
fiction movie. McKenna had been in the Navy all his life and it was about China actually
at the time of the Boxer but it had been a very big thick novel as the cycle was a very
referenced and we tapped there and kicked it around. Essentially what he did for me
he just like throwing a ball against a wall in the process of trying to explain it to
him I put my thoughts into words and curiously enough what was worked out that one night
has never really been changed about ten years later toward the end of the sixties I ran
across a situation where I thought well I'll just change it around and I tried to buy
it but it wouldn't change. It was too interlocked with actual history and patterns of development
that I had had working from twenty years before I got the different things that I had
in the cycle plan itself. Okay in other words what you've done is to look back into history
and extrapolate from what has happened to what is happening now to what will happen in the
future. That's right yes and saying that as I see it we are traveling this direction and
this is my evidence and see if you can find any evidence to disprove what I project.
This is this is this attitude this is what I took from science fiction this is what I
found in science fiction that was so useful and it was the core of the magazine that John
Campbell published in Astounding which later became a log. The hard science fiction story
that says this is this is the legitimate hypothesis. Attack it if you can.
Okay I think a lot of people who don't know all of your work would mostly associate you
with the Dorsi novel and I've read that some people consider you to be a militarist because
of that. I don't think that's fair do you? Well actually it isn't really the cycle
is made with three archetypes. One of which is the warrior and one of which is the philosopher
and one of which is the faith holder. And each book showcases one of these types. For
example Sir John Hawkewood is obviously a warrior. The second historical novel deals with John
Milton not as a poet but as a propagandist essentially for the promillion government
during the period when he was writing his tracks for the cause. So we have a faith holder
here and the faith holder he's ideal for my needs as a faith holder archetype because
he shows the two faces of the faith holder. The faith holder is actually Jenna's face
you know the old Roman god at the entrance of the Roman houses that looked both in and
out at two faces. The two faces of the faith holder is the fanatic and the true faith holder.
The word faith doesn't quite cover it. It's somebody who is clearly committed to faith
they believe in as opposed to the fanatic who essentially uses the faith for their own
purpose. Now the historical novel will show the warrior, the faith holder and the philosopher
in the person of people we can look up in history books. The 20th century will show
them at work in our century. The future ones show them in the projected and problematical
future but the warrior is only one of three types all of which equally necessary. The
philosopher and the faith holder for example finally the book that's now in my publisher's
hands it's 1400 manuscript pages long and will be coming out in about a year now within
the next year hopefully will be a great big book is really it's part of the closing scene
of the whole dog on panorama that the cycle represents. So it's hero is all things both
warrior faith holder and philosopher but it has a very strong influence on the world
in this particular book because there's two more to come after this these will be consecutive
these will be prequel, sequel, post sequel. Final encyclopedia then chanterelle, then
child will really be three parts of one there'll be a trilogy effectively the story will be
continuous in other words but this first one the final encyclopedia deals mainly with
the attitude of the faith holder this is essentially what my multi hero who is really
a reincarnation although reincarnation is not the proper word it's the second really
the third life I should say of the man who was the hero of Dorsey Donald Reign and he
was Donald Reign effectively he animated went back in time and animated the dead body because
he can't change the past to exist as Paul Forman and necromancer and now he goes forward
and becomes Tim pardon me not Tim but Halney in the last three books and in final encyclopedia
Halney essentially fully becomes fully developed as in his faith holder part now the reason
the emphasis on the military is there is for two reasons one is this caught this caught
the eye of the publishers and they package the books as military oriented books and in
fact the ones that dealt with warrior types like Donald Reign the first one Dorsey where
Donald Reign is a warrior archetype were it would legitimate to it that way but then they
began publishing all the things in this way that is part of it the other part of it is
that all since all the cycle must be sound must be watertight is that the military elements
in there are justified are logicalized so it's not I don't blame people for being
let astray in this particular fashion but if they will look closely at the cycle they
will see it isn't true and about the only people I have any quarrel with those who without
reading the things simply make the assumption that this is a military early is pardon me
military strictly oriented series of books okay I just have about two or three more
can you handle that oh sure okay listen I'm okay Donald Reign I'll tell you what would
you give could you cut it for just a second here I'm gonna have to get something to get
my my voice tends to give out on me and no trouble no trouble right what was the where
were we okay I was just gonna ask about Donald Reign now he's got a vision or intuition
he's the future of man and so forth why would you have that vision come from a dorsi warrior
say rather than an exotic well he doesn't have a vision what what he has is what he
has it there's the same relation to ordinary logical process let's say calculus plate
page you know has some arithmetic this is merely a tool now I'm going to be substantiating
this tool in the historical and contemporary things there's this type of thinking is in
its embryo form right now you know there's evidence of it just as I don't know have you
read soldier ask that yes I have all right when you remember there's a artifact in there
called the final encyclopedia and the final encyclopedia is not something is is substantiated
by something called the theater of memory that was developed in the early part of the
Renaissance about well early the mid part of the Renaissance actually and again the aim
was was to get all knowledge together in a single handleable form which is something in
the 20th century we're approaching through computer science all these things hook together
there the pattern of thought the trick of thinking that is intuitive logic if I call
intuitive logic and that Donald uses in in dorsi and which will surface again actually in the
final encyclopedia and will will become one of the tools that give access to the creative
universe which is what the whole cycle aims at all along because one of the arguments
of the cycle cycle makes various arguments as I said it's main one is that we're in
process of evolution even though we don't know it right now we're part way toward the
development of the responsible human being particularly in western culture but one of
the other arguments is that we are see what were we we were off on theater of memory intuition
logic we are beginning to develop now the uses of our own mind and body that were more
or less dreamed of only at earlier time just as for example modern technology was a dream
of primitive man again the flint worker the flint worker dreamed of being able to turn
the rain off well never found out how to turn the rain off or turn the rain on until now
we can turn rain on we haven't yet hit the point where we turned off but that's right
over the making horizon what they came up with instead were shelters then they wanted
to shelter that wasn't smoky and by golly somebody invented chimney they wanted a house
that would be warm in the winter and they developed insulation and eventually furnaces
they dreamed of being cool in the summer and by golly along came air conditioning and
things like this the dreams of any people at any particular time in history become the
realities of future generation now how far down the line you don't know at all but essentially
so far with the human race just about anything that can be dreamed of has been gained essentially
about the only thing there's a tendency to respond to what I say this sort of things
with platform people well during the question and answer period they'll hold up their hands
and say but how about the dream of universal peace and I say well now you're not dealing
you can deal with you can achieve universal peace very well with yourself when you're
trying to achieve it with somebody else now that's another kettle of fish entirely you
have counter purposes going back and forth but things that can be done man against his
own universe man against his own environment is a battle with so far we tend to win and
we're also beginning to win again in this last thousand years and this is one of the
things we're a part way toward developing now the battle of man against himself in other
words we're beginning to say to ourselves I don't want to be fat you know I don't want
to be unhappy I don't want to be depressed and we're beginning to fumble out ways of
doing something about that and depression and so on so far just as we're beginning to
fumble toward an answer to the question of universal hunger you know the fact that some
people are always going to lack this or lack that.
Okay that's good okay I can I just have about two more now I know I know you were very hard
at this but as long as you've written now how hard is it for you to write do you have
to put a lot of work into it?
Oh the writing any kind any any art requires an infinite amount of work you know who wasn't
said that the definition of art was the taking of infinite things or words that affect but
the point is the person doing it enjoys it or he doesn't do it I'm I'm fascinated with
the work I do.
You wonder for example how a concert pianist can practice five hours a day you know week
after week month after month year after year you think if you're a non-piano player or
if you had piano playing lessons pushed on you and didn't like them when you were young
you think but this must be this must be a self-imposed agony it is it's a sheer pleasure
for him to get things just right and this of course is the battle cry of the artist
to get things just right.
I write and rewrite and rewrite and rewrite again this last book sections of it were written
once and barely touched again other sections were written in noble times I really couldn't
tell you how many ten or more ten fifteen times to get it just right.
I can't reread anything I've written without picking up a pencil and starting to correct
and improve it it's instinctive most writers have this kind of reaction to a certain extent
although some rewrite more some rewrite less there is a type of writer that doesn't rewrite
but instead sits and does nothing for a long time and then sits down and does it just the
way he or she wants it and that possibly is the hardest work of all because it's all being
done in the end.
I do it on paper of course the fact that I use I use a computer to write with nowadays
makes it that much easier makes it that much faster.
Okay finally I want to make sure I have this straight now because I've read some differing
statements from critics on your child cycle.
Okay when it's finished there will be twelve novels is that right?
Let's see now yes the original plan was for six novels.
Let me see no for nine novels pardon me three historical three late in the 20th century
and three late in the future because I started on the future length first it was there I
first discovered that these that each book was was going to be too big to get into one
one set of covers also to begin with with Dorsay and Soldier Astronaut and Necromancer
and things like that I was up against the fact that publishers refused to print category
fiction in lengths of much more than a hundred thousand words at that time.
Remember this the first big book to come out actually was Frank Herbert's Dune which
and it dates Dorsay which happened earlier about I think four or six years something
like that and Dune was printed only because one editor in particular practically well
ladies job online and practically offered to shoot up the publishing house at Leslie
what after it and they choose their fingernails you know because there's a great deal of money
involved in printing a very large book.
This is still the case even with paperbacks even in paperback it's very expensive to do
a big take book.
So these things had to be cut pardon me I mean they had to be divided into smaller chunks
and the result was I ended up with three historical three contemporary and six forward.
Now I've got six forward final encyclopedia at fourteen hundred pages is so big that child
which should have been see that final encyclopedia is a penultimate novel.
The last one the ultimate one is child and obviously a final encyclopedia is fourteen hundred
child would have run close to two thousand manuscript pages which is far too big so I've had to split that again.
So effectively what we have now is not twelve but thirteen novels.
Now I would like to say that this won't happen anymore that the three once I get through child
three historical and three contemporary will will stay within single volume sizes.
I think there's a pretty good chance except in the case of Hawkwood.
Now and the problem with that is that is that Sir John Hawkwood the real the actual man lived a very long time
by medieval standards and astonishingly long time when you just stop to think that most of his adult life was spent
in hand-to-hand combat wearing armor.
He actually lived into his seventies and he covered in that time what by modern standards would have been three
or four lifetimes.
He starts out in simple Headeham England which is out in the boondocks of ethics in his time literally
when ethics was mainly for us and ends up in Florence Italy which at that time was the center of western civilization.
So effectively he traveled in subjective time about 150 to 180 years in terms of moving forward with the pattern of civilization.
Excuse me time out.
I'm back with you.
Sure.
Okay.
What else do you got for me?
Well okay I guess I do have one more that was about it but let me ask you one more.
This is something we like to ask most authors who have been written who have written as long as you have.
As you look around the field now is it essentially different than it was when you started writing?
Oh yes you know it's a great deal different.
But the difference is one of natural evolution and development.
In other words it's not that you see there was no point at which science fiction stood still.
If you look at the magazines of the late 1920s which is when Hugo Gernsback was essentially starting the field in its modern sense.
You could trace science fiction if you liked back to the Athenian Greek in the sense of stories about other worlds and other places.
The concept of Atlantis goes back that far for example.
So I know the Bergerac and I'm talking about the actual man not the character in the play.
Wrote several stories one of them called Voyages to the Sun and the Moon.
In other words it's a story type that runs down through history although it's rarer.
It became a school essentially a category in publishers term in the 1920s when magazines began to devote themselves.
This was the heyday of the magazines and they were racing magazines and western magazines and they were science fiction magazines.
Magazines of fantastic science.
What was printed in the late 1920s and the early 1930s went through a period of development when John Gamble took over Astounding.
The concept of the hard science fiction story and also something else the idea story which is essentially a thematic science fiction story.
It began with John in the 30s and that period has developed and gone on.
They were originally hardware stories originally science fiction.
It's gone from hard science to essentially soft science.
In other words the subject the scientific element has gone from physics and chemistry to rather went from physics and chemistry into psychology and sociology and things like this.
And with the emergence in the 60s of the excellent crop of women writers who have almost nominated the field since then.
We've had the introduction of character into our stories.
They have become much more stories of human interest.
As has been pointed out it says that we've been exploring the inner universe as much as we've been exploring the outer universe perhaps more.
Now this is a great development actually.
Any literary field that doesn't develop dies.
You can see if you look at the mystery field which has a category that goes back farther than science fiction.
How the recognize category goes back farther than science fiction.
Right into the 19th century you can see the development there the same way from the deductive mystery you should go back home type on up to the present day.
The spy story like the Lee Curry stories you know the last one of which was Splyly's.
Can't remember.
But anyway the type of there's the action mystery and there's the spy mystery and so on and so forth.
These periods of development I mean pardon me of these periods of development but this constant Russian development goes on all the time.
And of course it's had its effect on science fiction.
We have we have writers nowadays who were much more interested in the effect of future happenings upon people and on upon future happenings.
So this this makes for very interesting very interesting fiction.
And it's a curious field and that the older writers learn from the younger writers.
In other words we shift to we were writing earlier and writing earlier type of science fiction.
Learn and develop along with the field itself.
So that the useful and elements that come in later on are picked up and shown in their own work as well.
The one thing that doesn't change is the emphasis on exploration.
Science fiction is one field that has a readership that will allow you to take that will allow the author to take a look at anything to explore any topic.
And because of this it is very wholesome and very honest.
This is one reason for example what the women the whole women the whole point of the women's the whole element of the women's movement came up in literature.
It was the sort of thing that science fiction could not ignore.
If you see something happening a change happening in your own lifetime and you're writing about the future you have to assume that
there will be future effect from this happening.
Excuse me time out again.
I'm afraid my voice is going out for good here.
Yeah well we're you know that's fine Mr. Dixon we've we've really got enough material.
Yeah I will have more to say I hope I am not this croaky when I get down to University Kansas.
Yeah we're almost approaching an hour so you put a lot of talking in.
Well listen then we sure appreciate the time what we'll do is it probably is going to be called sometime before these are edited and sent to you.
Right.
But I will meet you in Kansas this summer I'm looking forward to that.
Okay.
And listen we very much appreciate your time we know how busy you are.
Oh that's it's like life picks you up by the strut of the neck and carries you along as you're going to you will find yourself in doing the same thing you know in a while.
Not only you not only get busier as you go along but the world itself gets busier around you.
Got those what's going to happen in the lower right.
That's the way it seems I wonder if it's really that way though.
Oh yeah it is it is.
We have a there's a number of factors that have their effect here one is simply that the world's population is increasing and if you look closely at it you'll see this increases competition.
There are much more whatever whatever your level of competence is there's more people at that level in a position to compete with you.
Also we have tools of proliferate tools everything from the dog on a hammer to the dog on computer itself and we're in a situation since we live in the competitive society in which the more tools you can handle the better position you are in that competition.
It makes life easier more pleasant and far more interesting to be able to be able to use these tools and the tools can be a knowledge of foreign languages or it can be as I say a knowledge of how to program a computer or a knowledge of space mechanics for that matter.
These things become fascinating particularly the people who are interested in life in general.
Yeah I am I'm a medievalist myself I've got to get busy here and teach Chaucer in about half an hour I'm an English teacher here at the college.
Chaucer was one of my favorites in fact Chaucer is contemporary with Hogwood.
Oh yeah I'm sure they.
Since Chaucer was used as you probably know on a number of confidential diplomatic sent on confidential diplomatic journeys by the king a great deal.
The chances that he and Hogwood met are pretty dog gone good.
Yeah okay I'll be looking forward to those future novels listen Mr. Dixon we sure appreciate the time and I'll be seeing you in a few weeks in Kansas and meet you in person.
Thank you very much then.
Right.
Okay good bye.